***********
 Licensing
***********

JInfoCard is free software and falls under the BSD license.

Summarized, according to this license JInfoCard may be
redistributed in any way with or without modification in source or
binary form under the condition that a copy of the license is included
and that the name of the company (Fraunhofer) is not used for selling
or promoting the product itself. Finally the license consists of the
usual disclaimer about rejecting any warranties on the product and the
possible consequences involved in modifying and/or using it.


Fraunhofer Institute
====================

The Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft, the largest organization for applied
research in Europe, sees itself as a service company, offering its
various scientific and technological knowhow to private and public
organisations and partners. The Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft is made up of
56 institutes staffed by a total of roughly 12,500 employees, with a
researched budged of about 1 billion EUR annually.

The Fraunhofer Institute for Open Communication Systems (FOKUS) is an
institute of the Fraunhofer Gesellschaft and has developed for 15
years solutions for partners from industry, research and public
administrations in areas such as integration of networks,
technologies, adaption and management of services, applications as
well as measuring and testing of diversified telecommunicationsystems.

Fraunhofer FOKUS offers in the form of their interoperability
laboratory industry partners and public organizations comprehensive
technical infrastructure and all the expertise needed to evaluate
interoperability of IT systems from different vendors on the
organizational, semantic and technical level.
